README.md, before:

## JupyterPiDAQ

This software allows live collection and plotting of 
analog data in  a Jupyter notebook. The package was initially developed
to provide an inexpensive laboratory system for teaching based on
the Raspberry Pi.  However, as the development has progressed the data
acquisition board drivers have been separated out of the user interface,
so that the software has potential to work on other computers running Jupyter
with A-to-D board specific connector code. Presently the compatible A-to-Ds are
for Raspberry Pis: Adafruit compliant ADS1115 boards 
([example](https://www.amazon.com/KNACRO-4-Channel-Raspberry-ADS1115-Channel/dp/B07149WH7P),
also available from other vendors); and the [&pi;-Plates
 DAQC2 plate](https://pi-plates.com/daqc2r1/). 
A demo mode will run on any computer with a Jupyter notebook install and
Python 3.6+.

__Sensors:__
Like many commercial educational packages the software knows about the
properties of some sensors, so can collect data directly in the units
appropriate for the sensor, in addition to the raw voltage signal returned
by the sensor. Not all sensors are compatible with all boards.
We attempt to keep this list of known sensors up-to-date, but the code may
provide additional sensors not listed here:
* __ADS1115 compatible__ (board can provide 3.3 V of power/reference to
 sensors):
  * voltage reading (V, mV) from any sensor that puts out a voltage in the
   range +/-3.3 V.
  * built-in thermistor (V, mV, K, C, F).
  * Vernier SS temperature probe (V, mV, K, C, F).
* __DAQC2 compatible__ (board can provide 5.0 V of power/reference to sensors):
  * voltage reading (V, mV) from any sensor that puts out a voltage in the
   range +/- 12 V.
  * Vernier SS temperature probe (V, mV, K, C, F).
  * Compatible with standard Vernier probes. Calibrations being added.

_Author_: Jonathan Gutow <gutow@uwosh.edu>

_License_: GPL V3+

### Installation

Installation is meant to be done into a virtual environment
from the PyPi repository. There are two modes "Production" 
for end users and "Development" for those who want to
improve the package.

_Production_

_Development_

Basic requirements: Python 3.6+, associated
pip and a Jupyter notebook.
See: [python.org](https://python.org) and
[Jupyter.org](https://jupyter.org).

1. If not installed, install pipenv:`$ pip3 install --user pipenv`. You may
need to add `~/.local/bin` to your `PATH` to make `pipenv`
available in your command shell. More discussion: 
[The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/).
1. Navigate to the directory where this package will be
or has been downloaded to. Use `pipenv`to install an 
["editable" package](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#editable-installs) 
inside the directory as described below:
    1. Start a shell in the environment `$ pipenv shell`.
    1. Install using pip.
        1. If you downloaded the git repository named "JupyterPiDAQ"
        and have used that directory to build your virtual
        environment: `$ pip install -e ../JupyterPiDAQ/`.
        1. If you are downloading from PyPi (not yet available)
        `$ pip install -e JupyterPiDAQ`
        1. Either should install all the additional packages this
        package depends upon. On a Raspberry Pi this will take
        a long time. It probably will not run without at least 1 GB of swap. See: 
[Build Jupyter on a Pi](https://www.uwosh.edu/facstaff/gutow/computer-and-programming-how-tos/installing-jupyter-on-raspberrian).
    1. Still within the environment shell test
    this by starting jupyter `$ jupyter notebook`. Jupyter should launch in your browser.
        1. Open a new notebook using the default (Python 3) kernel.
        1. In the first cell import all from DAQinstance.py: `from DAQinstance import *`.
        When run this cell should load the DAQmenu at the end of the Jupyter notebook 
        menu/icon bar. If you do not have an appropriate A-to-D
        board installed you will get a message and the software
        will default to demo mode, substituting a random number
        generator for the A-to-D. Because of the demo mode it is
        possible to run this on any computer, not just a Pi.
1. If you wish, you can make this environment available to an alternate Jupyter
install as a special kernel when you are the user.
    1. Make sure you are running in your virtual environment `$ pipenv shell` in the directory for  virtual
    environment will do that.
    1. Issue the command to add this as a kernel to your personal space: 
    `$ python -m ipykernel install --user --name=<name-you-want-for-kernel>`.
    1. More information is available in the Jupyter/Ipython documentation. A simple tutorial from Nikolai Jankiev
    (_Parametric Thoughts_) can be found [here](https://janakiev.com/til/jupyter-virtual-envs/).

Commit message:

reorg to make install as a directory in namespace.

README.md, after:

## JupyterPiDAQ

This software allows live collection and plotting of 
analog data in  a Jupyter notebook. The package was initially developed
to provide an inexpensive laboratory system for teaching based on
the Raspberry Pi.  However, as the development has progressed the data
acquisition board drivers have been separated out of the user interface,
so that the software has potential to work on other computers running Jupyter
with A-to-D board specific connector code. Presently the compatible A-to-Ds are
for Raspberry Pis: Adafruit compliant ADS1115 boards 
([example](https://www.amazon.com/KNACRO-4-Channel-Raspberry-ADS1115-Channel/dp/B07149WH7P),
also available from other vendors); and the [&pi;-Plates
 DAQC2 plate](https://pi-plates.com/daqc2r1/). 
A demo mode will run on any computer with a Jupyter notebook install and
Python 3.6+.

__Sensors:__
Like many commercial educational packages the software knows about the
properties of some sensors, so can collect data directly in the units
appropriate for the sensor, in addition to the raw voltage signal returned
by the sensor. Not all sensors are compatible with all boards.
We attempt to keep this list of known sensors up-to-date, but the code may
provide additional sensors not listed here:
* __ADS1115 compatible__ (board can provide 3.3 V of power/reference to
 sensors):
  * voltage reading (V, mV) from any sensor that puts out a voltage in the
   range +/-3.3 V.
  * built-in thermistor (V, mV, K, C, F).
  * Vernier SS temperature probe (V, mV, K, C, F).
* __DAQC2 compatible__ (board can provide 5.0 V of power/reference to sensors):
  * voltage reading (V, mV) from any sensor that puts out a voltage in the
   range +/- 12 V.
  * Vernier SS temperature probe (V, mV, K, C, F).
  * Compatible with standard Vernier probes. Calibrations being added.

_Author_: Jonathan Gutow <gutow@uwosh.edu>

_License_: GPL V3+

### Installation

Installation is meant to be done into a virtual environment
from the PyPi repository. There are two modes "Production" 
for end users and "Development" for those who want to
improve the package.

NOTE: If a binary distribution (whl or wheel) is not available for your
platform, some of the required packages may need to be compiled. This will
require the python header and development files for your platform. To get
on most *nix platforms use the command `sudo apt install python3-dev`.

_Production_

_Development_

Basic requirements: Python 3.6+, associated
pip and a Jupyter notebook.
See: [python.org](https://python.org) and
[Jupyter.org](https://jupyter.org).

1. If not installed, install pipenv:`$ pip3 install --user pipenv`. You may
need to add `~/.local/bin` to your `PATH` to make `pipenv`
available in your command shell. More discussion: 
[The Hitchhiker's Guide to Python](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/).
1. Navigate to the directory where this package will be
or has been downloaded to. Use `pipenv`to install an 
["editable" package](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#editable-installs) 
inside the directory as described below:
    1. Start a shell in the environment `$ pipenv shell`.
    1. Install using pip.
        1. If you downloaded the git repository named "JupyterPiDAQ"
        and have used that directory to build your virtual
        environment: `$ pip install -e ../JupyterPiDAQ/`.
        1. If you are downloading from PyPi (not yet available)
        `$ pip install -e JupyterPiDAQ`
        1. Either should install all the additional packages this
        package depends upon. On a Raspberry Pi this will take
        a long time. It probably will not run without at least 1 GB of swap. See: 
[Build Jupyter on a Pi](https://www.uwosh.edu/facstaff/gutow/computer-and-programming-how-tos/installing-jupyter-on-raspberrian).
    1. Still within the environment shell test
    this by starting jupyter `$ jupyter notebook`. Jupyter should launch in your browser.
        1. Open a new notebook using the default (Python 3) kernel.
        1. In the first cell import all from DAQinstance.py: `from DAQinstance import *`.
        When run this cell should load the DAQmenu at the end of the Jupyter notebook 
        menu/icon bar. If you do not have an appropriate A-to-D
        board installed you will get a message and the software
        will default to demo mode, substituting a random number
        generator for the A-to-D. Because of the demo mode it is
        possible to run this on any computer, not just a Pi.
1. If you wish, you can make this environment available to an alternate Jupyter
install as a special kernel when you are the user.
    1. Make sure you are running in your virtual environment `$ pipenv shell` in the directory for  virtual
    environment will do that.
    1. Issue the command to add this as a kernel to your personal space: 
    `$ python -m ipykernel install --user --name=<name-you-want-for-kernel>`.
    1. More information is available in the Jupyter/Ipython documentation. A simple tutorial from Nikolai Jankiev
    (_Parametric Thoughts_) can be found [here](https://janakiev.com/til/jupyter-virtual-envs/).
